Introduction
------------

This document is an explanation of some of the thinking behind the rules.

While I am a UK resident and these rules are written aimed at the creation of a
UK based party, I've attempted to write them so that you can use them in your
country.  There's no centralised organisation you need permission from.  Just
be aware of your country's rules regarding elections.  Note that I will accept
translations which include country specific changes (as long as you don't stray
from the intention).

These Rules and Rationale documents are held on github at
https://github.com/zmower/BitcoinParty.  To change them raise an Issue or email
me at zmower at protonmail.com and we will discuss it.

Principles
----------

Since someone posted about a hedonistic Bitcoin party, I thought I'd try to
make the party name a little more differentiated by combining the two words,
hashtag-style.

Legal tender seems like a worthy goal but does it go far enough?  Would closing
the BoE stop inflation?  Would closing the BoE cause deflation?  Would we keep
fiat and cause the banks to settle in bitcoin?  Discuss!

There's too much secrecy in government.  How are citizens supposed to make
decisions when they don't have the full details.

It seems to me that the power of bitcoin is mostly in its decentralisation.
What if state power was similarly decentralised?  Start by abolishing some
under-performing ministries and hand their responsibilities and funding to
local councils.

Structure
---------

In UK Electoral Commision terms, each local grouping as an accounting unit.

Terms and Voting
----------------

The one year term for local officers is to encourage experimentation.

Two years seems like long enough to make an impact.

Every five years for MPs seems like too long but this is (currently) out of our
control.`

The Rules
---------

Rule 1

The idea is to get elected and effect change so organising on a per
Parliamentary seat basis seems ideal.  You can go finer grained (per ward) if
you have the numbers and then organise a combined meeting for the Parliamentary
seat.  But there must only be a maximum of one group per parliametary seat.

Rule 2

I'm ultra-aware (as a Ledger owner) that anonymity for bitcoin holders is
important.  Hence why the meeting is virtual.  Textual conversations are also
more accessible.

Who calls the meeting?  You do.  Or someone else in your consituency.

Where are these meetings to be advertised? I've created r/BitcoinParty on
reddit for this purpose

Rule 3

The secretary serves the members needs.

Rule 4

The Electoral Commision requires that the money is tracked.  The restrictions
on the taking and making of loans is to simplify the treasurer's and the EC's
job.  The restrictions on donations are for the same reaons and a good idea to
prevent overdue influence by  donors.

Rule 5

Localism.  Local first.  Bottom up.  This is the way.

Rules 6 and 7

Boring voting stuff.  Ideally we'd all list our preferences in order and then
do some Debian-like voting system.  But I wanted something that could be
decided in one short meeting.

If there are less candidates than seats then you still want to test the
confidence in your candidates.  If they fail to get a majority in the room
then that's a sure sign they won't win!

Rule 8

A late addition.  I thought this might prevent a representative becoming remote
to the local party/captured by the bubble.

Rule 9

As Tony Benn said, "And how can we get rid of you?".

