Principles
----------

The BitcoinParty's main aim is to promote bitcoin to legal tender status within
its operating area.  We also believe that (as with bitcoin) transparency and
decentralisation of power are the best ways to run a country.

Structure
---------

Each grouping self-organises.  Members are in control.  Each local grouping is
served by a secretary and a treasurer.

At the lowest level, a General Secretary exists to serve the local groupings
(e.g. by interfacing to regulators and dealing with those things which must be
done/held centrally) within the country they are serving.  Initially a
country's General Secretary is the person who does the leg-work to initiate the
party in that country.

Similarly a General Treasurer exist to deal with centralised monetary issues. 
The General Secretary appoints the initial General Treasurer.

Terms and voting
----------------

Local groupings vote to elect their secretary and treasurer every year (unless
their secretary is their representative, see rule 8).

A country's secretaries elect a General Secretary from their number every two
years.

A country's treasurers elect a General Treasurer from their number every two
years.

In the event that this party forms a govenment, its ministers will be elected
by the party representatives, one at a time, in reverse seniority order.  A
member cannot win more than one ministry. The General Secretary organises the
ballots.  

The Rules
---------

1. Members will self-organise within a voting area.  Elected members also self
organise.

2. A meeting shall be held on a web forum to inaugurate the local party
grouping.  The meeting must result in the appointment of a secretary and a
treasurer.

2a Once formed it is the secretary's responsibility to inform the country's
General Secretary of the details from 2 and their contact details.  These will
be added to the relevant country groupings file held by the General Secretary.
2b In the event of multiple groups forming for a constituency, the first
application wins.  Any further applications will be refered to the first
grouping.

3. It is the secretary's responsabilty to keep track of the local party
membership and organise the agendas of meetings based on member input.

4. It is the financial officers responsibilty to keep track of any monetary
transactions related to the operation of the local party.

4a These transactions must be reported to the country's regulator in accordance
with their rules.
4b There will be no loans taken or made.
4c Only donations below a small amount from a known source who is also an
eligible voter. The small amount is set by the country's General Secretary.
4d Any inelligible donations will be returned.  Any inelligible donations which
cannot be returned to the donor will be returned to the regulator within 30
days of receipt.

5. All policies not covered by the principles section will be decided by the
local party grouping to meet local concerns.

6. Candidates for elections shall apply to the appropriate secretary (e.g.
minister candates apply to the General Secretary) during the submissions
period.

6a. For local grouping officers, the submissions period starts a month before
the expiry of their term and ends after a week.  If the incumbent does not
intend to run he should make this clear at the start of the submission period.
If no candidates step forward, the submission period repeats.

6b. For representative candidates, the submission period is at the discretion
of the appropriate secretary but must be clear to voting members.  Once
started, it should follow the rules in 6a. 

7. Campaignig shall last three weeks. A meeting shall be held and a series of
votes taken to decide on the candidate(s).  If there are S seats to fill and C
candidates then:

7a. If C <= S then votes must be held for each candidate.  The candidates must
win the votes of the majority of the members present at the meeting.
7b If C > (S+1) then a vote must be held to reduce the number of candidates to
S+1.
7c When C = (S+1) then there will be a final vote to select the N candidates.
The one with the least votes is not elected.
7d In the case of a tie then the outcome is decided on the rolling of dice.

8. A candidate who wins an election for a representative's seat automatically
becomes the secretary for the local grouping they represent.

9. A member may be removed from the party by a vote of the local grouping.  A
secretary or treasurer may be removed from office by a vote of no confidence by
the local grouping.  A General Secretary may be removed from office by a vote
of no confidence by the collection of local secretaries.  A General Treasurer
may be removed from office by a vote of no confidence by the collection of
local trasurers.  A minister may be removed by a vote of no confidence by the
collection of representatives.  Removal of an officer immediately starts the
submision period.  If a secretary has been removed, a temporary replacement
will be chosen at random from the voter base.

Coda
----

These rules, their attendant rationale document and any common detailed
policies (TBD) are maintained by u/zmower.  Anybody can propose rule changes
via either a github Issue or by bringing internet threads of discourse to my
attention.  Translations welcome.  Translations can change the rules to suit
your country but should keep the intent.  Feel free to fork!


